# AICAS 2025 - A.L.P.H.A.

This fork of flopoco contains one supplementary commit `alpha: Init for AICAS`, which represent our contribution to this software.

The changes have been anonymised for the review period.

### Building

The simplest way to build the version of FloPoCo with our changes is through the Nix build system.

The recommended version is [Lix](https://lix.systems), and can be installed on any Linux/MacOS system by following the instructions on https://lix.systems/install/ .
Once installed, and this repository cloned, one can enter a shell containing the necessary build tools by running:

```bash
nix-shell
```

To build FloPoCo, you can then run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build && cd build

cmake .. -G Ninja && ninja
```

### Running

Once this is done, the `flopoco` executable is located in the `bin` directory of the build directory.

The different options available can be shown by running:

```bash
./bin/flopoco alpha
```

#### Examples

To generate the VHDL code corresponding to the Sigmoid function, run:

```bash
./bin/flopoco alpha f=Sigmoid wIn=8 wOut=8
```

It will generate an approximation of the Sigmoid function, using 8-bit fixed point numbers as input and output.

```bash
./bin/flopoco alpha f=Sigmoid wIn=16 wOut=16 method=PiecewiseHorner3 enableSymmetry=1
```

This more complicated example will produce an approximation on 16-bit fixed point numbers, using a Piecewise Polynomial of degree 3, and expo=loiting the intrinsic symmetry of the sigmoid function (for more readable code, it is possible to add the parameter `PlainVHDL=1`).

The `method` parameter can be one of `PlainTable`, `Horner`, `Multipartite`, `PiecewiseHorner1`, `PiecewiseHorner2`, `PiecewiseHorner3`.

#### Verifying the operator

The generated operators can also be tested against the mathematical function they are approximating, adding the `TestBench` argument:

```bash
./bin/flopoco alpha f=GeLU wIn=9 wOut=9 TestBench
```

This will produce a `test.input` file representing the tests validationg the approximation, and will print a command to emulate the tests with `nvc`, in this particular case:

```bash
nvc -M 128m -a flopoco.vhdl --relaxed --error-limit=0 -e TestBench_GeLU_9_9_auto_comb_uid2_comb_uid6  -r --exit-severity=failure --wave=TestBench_GeLU_9_9_auto_comb_uid2_comb_uid6.fst --stop-time=5132ns
```

FloPoCo also contains automatic testing of operators, which will run the previous steps automatically. To execute it for the `alpha` operator, simply run:

```bash
./bin/flopoco autotest operator=alpha
```

All tests should pass, except for the approximation of `GeLU` on 6-bits fixed point numbers using the `deltaReLU` parameter.
Indeed, for this small size, the `GeLU` function is indiscernable from the `ReLU` function, i.e. their difference is 0 and FloPoCo will consider that this request is meaningless.

# FloPoCo

FloPoCo is a generator of Floating-Point (but not only) Cores for FPGAs.

webpage: http://flopoco.org

Copyright © INSA-Lyon, HS-Fulda, ENS-Lyon, INRIA, CNRS, UCBL, 2008-2020
All rights reserved
Contact: Florent.de-Dinechin@insa-lyon.fr, Martin.Kumm@cs.hs-fulda.de

The intent of the authors is to distribute FloPoCo as free software (in the FSF AGPL sense), while imposing that the source code generated by FloPoCo is also free software (also AGPL-like). 

The build procedure is shown in the installation guide that you can find in doc/web/flopoco_installation.html 

Developers welcome!

